# POIMAGIC-an-Early-Warning-Systems
The goal of the project is to create an Early Warning System called POIMAGIC for streaming spatial events based on Earthquake hotspots. The total data in each dataset will be subdivided into 12 batches which contain the locations of events for a time interval of 2 months; e.g. one batch might contain the locations of earthquakes which happened in September till October of 2020 and our system will use a sliding window approach to create input data for the POIMAGIC system. To create this system we will use Python with various libraries top conduct our study of this topic.

### Our system will create TWO kinds of hotspots:
a.	Small, very hot spots whose density is above a “high” density threshold d1

b.	Large, more regional hotspots whose density if a above a “medium high” density threshold d2; d1>d2. 

## Dataset Attributes
The dataset has 5 attributes. Their range is given in brackets.
1.	Time. In UTC. Format: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.000Z. Indicate the date and time when the earthquake initiates rupture, which is known as the "origin" time. Note that large earthquakes can continue rupturing for many 10's of seconds.
2.	Latitude. [-90.0, 90.0] Decimal degrees latitude. Negative values for southern latitudes. Coordinates are given in the WGS84 reference frame
3.	Longitude. [-180.0, 180.0] Decimal degrees longitude. Negative values for western longitudes. Coordinates are given in the WGS84 reference frame.
4.	Depth. [0, 1000] Depth of the event in kilometers.
5.	Mag. [-1.0, 10.0] The magnitude for the event. Commonly a moment magnitude that is based on the scalar seismic-moment of an earthquake determined by calculation of the seismic moment-tensor that best accounts for the character of the seismic waves generated by the earthquake.


## For any questions/concerns please contact:
Saim Ali ( saimali00@live.com )

## Contributing members:
James Aquino

Justin George

Johan John
